[Music]
time now for campus craziness and
tonight the title is not an
overstatement it really is crazy
consider Evergreen State College in
Washington and Olympia every year the
school holds a day in absence in years
past nine eleven non-white students
symbolically left campus and attended
anti-racism events this year student
activists demanded that all white people
leave campus or else at Weinstein
refused he's professor at Evergreen
State and he called the race-based
demand quote a show of force and an act
of oppression in response to that here's
what happened this is not about you in
terms of white curb but it's not as bad
when you have lost without one
history could give it in the direction
of the values that you are standing here
for yeah resign what resign Wow
professor Brett Weinstein joins us now
professor first of all thank you for
coming on that looks like something you
know out of Phnom Penh 1975 was that I
mean what exactly was going on there
what happened well what happened is that
50 or so students decided to disrupt the
class that I was holding that morning
and demand my resignation because you
wouldn't leave campus because you're
white
well they imagined that I am a racist
and that I am teaching racism in the
classroom and that has caused them to
imagine that I have no right to speak
that I am harming students by the very
act of teaching them what happened after
the video cut out well that's an
interesting story the the campus police
apparently showed up outside of the
classroom
the protesters then blocked their
entrance they I did not call the police
someone else called the police and they
were concerned for my safety but when
they tried
come into the building to make sure that
I was okay the protesters blocked them
and because the issue of policing is so
sensitive at the moment the police had
to run around and find another entrance
to the building to get inside and check
with me at the point they did that the
protesters moved on and corralled the
president of the college
it has office they extracted some
demands from him among the demands was
that there would be a meeting that I
actually demands is perhaps the wrong
word a concession that there would be a
meeting at four o'clock in a large room
on top of our library building so that
meeting took place at the end of the day
and believe it or not it was far crazier
than the video that you just showed this
whole story is so over the top that even
though we do a lot of these it's hard
for me to believe it's real so the core
demand is that all people of your skin
color leave the campus your presidents a
guy called George bridges where would
freeze why is it there he is right there
what George bridges is supposed to be
running the school why is he allowing MA
a mob to threaten one of his professors
well I must say I have some concern that
the story is so strange that it's not
even going to make sense to an audience
that isn't local to the campus dr.
bridges is allowing this mob to
effectively control the campus and they
have been in control since 9:30 on
Tuesday morning at this moment I believe
dr. bridges is answering a set of
demands put forward by the protesters
and they have said that if he does not
if he does not accept their demands that
there will be violence I do not know
what his response to those demands is
going to be but I know that that's
taking place at this hour
he is also told the police to stand down
so although the campus police have a
sense of what it is that needs to happen
in a circumstance like this they
have been hobbled by the fact that they
answer to the college administration and
in fact for several days have been
barricaded in the campus police station
oh my gosh this is like something out of
another country I just hard to believe
any of this is real and just our viewers
should look this up online because
there's a lot of pieces the story it's
hard to convey on television but you had
this
I thought powerful line in your letter
an I assume or no kind of right winger
if you teach it evergreen I'm sure
you're you know a Hillary voter but you
had this you had not a hit not a Hillary
voter I'm a deeply progressive person
and what I say I'm there you go on I'm
troubled by what this implies about the
current state of the left what you think
you said people shouldn't be allowed to
speak or not on the basis of their skin
color which seems like a foundational
belief of the left and one that I agree
with strongly and for that they
physically threatened you and are trying
to get you fired it's not yes there they
are absolutely trying to get me fired
and they believe that my words in my
email are transparently racist and I
think we're caught quite off guard when
people who were not at Evergreen read my
letter and couldn't find any racism in
it yeah just think just the opposite
professor Godspeed to you and I hope
you'll come back with an update on this
story because it's really one of the
most amazing things I've ever seen
thank you